# The Palm Financial Nx Monorepo and VPCS Helper System

This monorepo (housed at envfile APP_ROOT or `git rev-parse --show-toplevel`) is a collection of applications, shared libraries, and components. The monorepo is managed by the VPCS helper system, which is a set of scripts and configurations that help manage the monorepo.

## Important VPCS Features

Most people setting up the application will run `setup.sh` (or, for limited powershell support, `setup.ps1`) to install the VPCS helper system. This will do the following:

* Copy the `.envrc` file from .vpcs/etc/template/default.envrc to the root of the project.
* Add the .vpcs/bin directory to the PATH.
* Attempt to run `vpcs sanity envcheck`, which tries to install most major dependencies.

Most vpcs tasks (hosted in .vpcs/bin/tasks/[namespace]/[task]) are run by the `vpcs` command. For instance, `vpcs dev` will start the development server for the current project. The task folders are as follows:

* `.vpcs/bin/tasks/util`  - Default utilities; you do not need to type 'util', as this is the default namespace. `vpcs list` will `head -n5` all tasks in a namespace, and look for a line beginning with `#-`, which is the short documentation.

* `.vpcs/bin/tasks/sys` - System tasks; these are tasks that are not project-specific, but are used to manage features of the monorepo. They are similar to utilities, but are only used in certain cases.

* `.vpcs/bin/tasks/sanity` - Sanity checks; ensures that proper features are installed or that additional environment variables / configs are created (.envrc will by default load all files in the .vpcs/usr/profiles directory).

* `.vpcs/bin/tasks/install` - Installer features. Since some of these are OS specific, there are subfolders for each OS. VPCS detects your OS via `uname -a` and will add these tasks to the namespace.

* `.vpcs/bin/tasks/init` - Initialization tasks. Usually runs sanity checks, then the pnpm/nx installs and generators for a project or feature.

## Important commands:

* `vpcs getcfg [keypath]` - Uses yq to read the root-level vpcs.yml file and return the value at the keypath. For instance, `vpcs getcfg .apps.monorepo` will return the name of the monorepo.

* `vpcs list` will display namespaces and tasks. `vpcs list [namespace]` will display tasks in a namespace. The default util namespace is assumed if only one argument is given.

* `vpcs log-level [--echo|--console|--file] [level]` - Sets the log level for the current project. The default is `info`. The `--echo` flag will echo the log level to the console, the `--console` flag will log to the console, and the `--file` flag will log to the file.

* `vpcs nudge` - Bumps the version of the current branch in the vpcs.yml file. This is useful for updating the version of the project in the vpcs.yml file.

* `vpcs update-vpcs [branch]` - Updates the vpcs version to the version of the branch. This is useful for updating the version of vpcs in the vpcs.yml file.

* `vpcs log [level] [message]` - Logs a message at the specified level. The default level is `info`.

* `vpcs palm` - Attempts to build the palm project after running nx reset. This is the default dist deploy mechanism for palmfinancial.

* `vpcs refresh-webconfigs` - Updates the nextjsconfig library with the secrets in the secrets submodule. This is useful for updating the secrets in the nextjsconfig library.  Within each application, you can access the globals, secrets, or feature settings like this:

```javascript
import { NextJSConfig } from '@vpcs/nextjsconfig/server'; // or client
const feature = new NextJSConfig('myfeature');
```
Now, feature will give the following properties:
feature.globals - all globals defined in vpcs.yml for the project.
feature.secrets - all secrets defined in the secrets submodule.
feature.config - on server, a merge of both the .services.[currentService].features.[myfeature].{public|server} objects. On client, only the public object is visible (globals is also visible from either).

On non-nextjs projects, you may choose to `import { FeatureConfig } from '@vpcs/serverconfig'` or '@vpcs/clientconfig'` instead. These shortcuts are all set in tsconfig.base.json. As the configs are not pushed to git, you will need to run `vpcs refresh-webconfigs` to update the configs (or copy the specific js files from the secrets submodule).

## The PalmFinancial Application

Most of the repo is centered around the palmfinancial application itself, which follows a pipeline from
the development branch, to stable, to prerelease-{appname}. For instance, prerelease-concerto is the deploy version of concerto.

Most of concerto's specific vpcs features are in the libs/vpcs/core/scherzo/src/bin directory. For instance, `concerto prepare` will set up a new concerto build, and `concerto start` will run the devserver.

## Other Binaries

vpcs itself is located at .vpcs/bin/vpcs, and a couple other scripts are in that namespace as well:

* `ji` - Used by vpcs log; will use loglevel to print an emoji and the provided message.
* `locate` - Used by most of vpcs; for instance, the project webconfigs are at $(locate configs).
* `concerto` - is a shortcut for `vpcs scherzo`. Ergo, `concerto prepare` actually runs `vpcs scherzo prepare`, which is at libs/vpcs/core/scherzo/src/bin/prepare (as a bash script).

Almost all scripts are bash unless they are early install scripts which assume that alpine may be used;
primarily these are to install bash itself so the rest of the scripts can run.

`concerto sslproxy` is an interesting case; it runs sslproxy to port 4444 for the server on localhost:3000. The certs should be generated to .vpcs/etc/localcerts/local.{hostfile name}.crt and .vpcs/etc/localcerts/local.{hostfile name}.key.

The repo is also set up for building rust and ruby applications, but these are not currently in use. An
alternate `nosh` command plans to replace `vpcs`, but multiplatform support is still being decided.

## Important parts of the Palm Financial System

Inside of palm financial, we are using the app router on NextJS 14. The common paths are defined with the
prefix '@web' in the tsconfig.base.json file. The application's targets are in the package.json file, and the app uses tailwind, postcss, and many helper libraries.

The specific helpers for palmfinancial are in src/_lib (referred to by '@web/libs'); this includes:

* api-helper - a wrapper which generates simpler nextjs api routes. A handler is provided which calls the
concerto backend api, and allows returning of json objects { status, message, data } to the client.
* classy - a broad pure-js toolkit, it includes override classes for helper accessor methods, and two
important namespaces. Importable as { Classy } or { $ }, it can be used for the following shortcuts:

```javascript
import { $ } from '@web/libs/classy';
$.fn.curry(Object.getOwnPropertyNames) // returns a function that will return the keys of an object.
$.fn.getter(obj, 'key', () => 'default') // defines a getter ()=> 'default' at obj.key.
$.fn.setter(obj, 'key', fn) // defines a setter obj.key = which calls fn.
$.fn.method(obj, 'key', fn) // defines a method obj.key() which calls fn.

$.prime.factorCombinations // returns the prime factors of a number. $.prime.factorCombinations(12) => [2,2,3].
$.prime.isPrime // returns true if the number is prime. $.prime.isPrime(7) => true.
$.client.cookies // returns the cookies for the client. $.client.cookies => { cookie1: 'value1', cookie2: 'value2' }. Note this is an async getter.
```

Classy also provides some superclasses:

```javascript
$.str.up('string') // returns an extended string object, with methods like:
str.ascii // returns the ascii value of the string.
str.capitalize // capitalizes the string.
str.titleize // titleizes the string.
```

Much more can be found at [the classy documentation](project://apps/palmfinancial/src/_lib/README.md).

The Palm Financial app runs on NextJS 14, and uses the app router. It uses tailwind, postcss, and webpack.
Concerto is the orchestrator api, and uses the scherzo library to manage the build process.